title:Easiest vegetables to grow – 5 best crops for beginners
introduction:If you want to plant a kitchen garden, start with the easiest vegetables to grow to ensure success. There is little more fulfilling in life than cultivating your own crops from tiny seeds. Not only are home-grown vegetables tastier than store bought, but they are healthier and free from chemicals. Start planning your kitchen garden ideas now, and in as little as a few weeks you’ll have a delicious harvest. When deciding what to grow, make sure you choose vegetables that you actually enjoy eating, as you will get much more satisfaction out of your efforts. As long as you choose suitable varieties for your garden and follow the growing instructions, you should have no trouble growing our pick of the easiest vegetables to grow, whatever your experience level.
heading:1. Radishes
content:Learning how to grow radishes is probably the easiest place to start for beginners, and they are also one of the quickest vegetables to grow. Their peppery flavor makes them a tasty addition to salads, while some varieties are also delicious in stir fries. ‘These spicy little roots germinate reliably when seeded directly in the ground and are harvestable in a month or less in most conditions,’ says Matthew Geldin, head farmer at Farmscape. French Breakfast, Pink Beauty, Easter Egg and Valentine’s Day are good varieties to try.
heading:2. Green Beans
content:Versatile, delicious and generous yielders, green beans are one of the easiest vegetables to grow. You can choose from two growing styles: bush, which are more compact, and pole, which grow vertically, making them more space efficient. 
heading:3. Kale
content:Kale is also one of the healthiest crops beginners can grow. A true superfood, it’s packed with Vitamins A, C and K, with a single cup of the vegetable offering well in excess of your daily recommended dose. It also contributes to a broad variety of other essential nutrients, including manganese, calcium and potassium. As kale is a fairly compact crop, it can grow well in pots, so make sure to include a few plants in your vegetable garden container ideas.
heading:4. Beets
content:To grow beets, plant seeds direct in a sunny position, as the young plants do not like to be transplanted. Sow seeds half an inch deep, around 1-2 inches apart in rows around a foot apart. Once the beets have begun to grow, thin out the seedlings to around 3-4 inches apart. It will take around 2 months before beets are ready. At this stage, the root vegetables will bulge above the surface of the soil – you’re looking for at least the size of a golf ball. 
heading:5. Lettuce
content:Lettuce is one of the easiest crops to grow in a backyard garden. It can be grown in containers or in the ground, and it can be harvested continuously throughout the season. Lettuce requires partial shade, regular watering, and some space to spread out. Fresh lettuce is a nutritious and refreshing addition to any meal.
heading:What Are The Easiest Vegetables To Grow In Pots?
content:The easiest vegetables to grow in pots are those with a compact growth habit that won't quickly outgrow their containers. 'Leafy greens and herbs such as basil, green onions, and thyme work well in containers,' says Stuart Jones, farm manager at Civic Works' Real Food Farm. 'However, anything with a shallow root system will do just fine in a pot.' Also consider growing beans, tomatoes and potatoes in containers.
heading:What Are The Easiest Vegetables To Grow From Seed?
content: The easiest vegetables to grow from seed are those that require little intervention besides planting and watering. 'Many vegetables are easy to grow from seed,' says Turner. 'Lettuce, beans, cucumber, squash, radish, peas, pumpkins, arugula and okra would be what I’d consider the easiest. 'To be considered easy I would want the vegetable to germinate quickly and then not require much extra care (beyond necessary watering) to reach maturity and enjoy the harvest.'